ProFTPD Logging: Log Levels ProFTPD Logging: Log Levels Log Levels As mentioned in the logging documentation,
log messages are logged at different log levels (also known as
log priorities ), and with different facilities ( i.e. the component generating the log message). The following table lists the supported log levels, in descending priority
order.  Thus the DEBUG level has the lowest priority, and the EMERG level has the highest priority. Level Description EMERG Fatal/unrecoverable error/condition, application is unusable and
        stops immediately ALERT Condition requires immediate intervention by
        administrator/operator CRIT Condition should be corrected immediately, but indicates e.g. failure in secondary system/library ERR Non-urgent failure conditions that should be relayed to developers
        and/or administrators; should be resolved/corrected soon WARNING Unexpected error/condition that may require intervention to
        review/correct NOTICE Significant/noteworthy condition, no intervention/action
        required INFO Normal operating conditions, no intervention/action
        required DEBUG Internal details of application operations useful to developers,
        not necessarily useful during normal operations The proftpd daemon can use any or all of the above log levels for
its emitted log messages, depending on the situation.  You might find that
you only want proftpd to log messages above a certain level; for
example, you might not be interested in INFO and DEBUG level messages.  ProFTPD logs all levels by default.  To tell proftpd to silently ignore all log messages below a certain level,
use the SyslogLevel directive.  Thus to ignore INFO / DEBUG messages,
you would use: SyslogLevel notice Note that additional log filtering is also done by the syslogd daemon, to which proftpd logs by default.  You will need to
consult your syslogd configuration (typically found in /etc/syslog.conf ) to see whether it is capturing log messages
from the facility used by proftpd (default is "daemon"), and
whether it is filtering out messages below a certain level/priority. If you need to tell proftpd to use a different facility,
so that it matches your /etc/syslog.conf settings for example,
you can use the SyslogFacility directive like so: # Tell proftpd to log using the "ftp" facility, rather than "daemon"
  SyslogFacility ftp The DEBUG Level ProFTPD treats the DEBUG log level a little differently.  There
are so many conditions which are relevant only when triaging a specific issue
(such as figuring out why a user cannot log in, or why a file cannot be
uploaded) that the DEBUG level would become cluttered.  Additional
filtering of these debug messages is needed.  Thus ProFTPD imposes its own
notion of debug levels within the DEBUG logging level/priority. The DebugLevel directive is used to control the granularity/verbosity of the DEBUG level messages; the default level is 0, and goes to 10 (inclusive).  In general,
the higher the DebugLevel , the more debug messages will be emitted
by proftpd to the DEBUG logging level/priority. Additional Logging Note that ProFTPD also supports even finer-grained logging of internals via
its trace logging .  Trace logging, however, is
completely unrelated to syslogd , and thus the syslog facility and level concepts/filtering do not apply
to trace logging. © Copyright 2013-2019 The ProFTPD Project All Rights Reserved