ProFTPD: Configuring ProFTPD ProFTPD: Configuring ProFTPD The Configuration File The first step in configuring a proftpd daemon is knowing where
the configuration file, usually named proftpd.conf , is located.
The default location for this file is /etc/proftpd.conf or /usr/local/etc/proftpd.conf , depending on your installation.
When starting the daemon, the exact path to the configuration file to be
used can always be specified using the -c command-line option. The idea behind proftpd 's handling of the configuration file
is that a blank file can be used, and the daemon will still operate.  This
means that, unlike Apache, there is a "default" server configuration
in every proftpd.conf ; ProFTPD does not require that all
server configurations be explicitly written in the proftpd.conf file.  This default server attempts to bind to the IP address of the hostname
indicated by the hostname(1) command. Configuration Format The format of the proftpd.conf file is deliberately designed
to resemble the format used by Apache: lines of configuration directives contained with different contexts (or sections ). Each of configuration directive has the following properties: Syntax Default Context Module Compatibility Syntax The directive syntax indicates the format of the directive as it would
appear in a configuration file.  This syntax is extremely directive-specific,
so refer to the text of the directive's description for details. Default If the directive has a default value ( i.e. , if you omit it from your
configuration entirely, the ProFTPD server will behave as though you set it to
this particular value), it is described here.  If there is no default value,
this section should say " None ". Context The context of a directive indicates where in the server's
configuration files the directive is legal/allowed.  It is a comma-separated
list of one or more of the following values: server config This means that the directive may be used in the server configuration
    file ( e.g. , proftpd.conf ) outside of any other
    context ( i.e. not inside a <VirtualHost> or <Global> context).  This context defines a
    "main" or "default" server. <VirtualHost> This context means that the directive may appear inside <VirtualHost> sections in the server configuration file. <Global> This context means that the directive may appear inside <Global> sections in the server configuration file.  This context is used as a
    shortcut for placing directives with all server contexts, i.e. the
    "server config" context as well as any <VirtualHost> contexts within the configuration file.
    Any directives of the same name within those server sections will
    have precedence over a <Global> setting. <Anonymous> This context means that the directive may appear inside any <Anonymous> sections in the server configuration file.  An <Anonymous> section is
    not a true virtual server, but rather is a section within a server
    context ( i.e. "server config", <VirtualHost> or <Global> ).
    Anonymous sections are automatically chroot() ed .  Any
    configuration directives set for the containing server will be in effect
    for the anonymous section as well, unless overridden by a directive of
    the same name within the anonymous section. <Limit> This context means that the directive may appear inside any <Limit> sections in the server configuration file.  This context is used to place
    limits on who and how individual FTP commands, or groupings of FTP
    commands, may be used. <Directory> A directive marked as being valid in this context may be used inside <Directory> sections in the server configuration file.  This context configures views
    of the contained files based on the logged-in user's username or group
    membership, or on the name of the files ( e.g. Unix-style
    "hidden" files), and on whether the user has permission to see
    the files.  By definition, directives set using a .ftpaccess file are considered
    to be occurring within a <Directory> context. .ftpaccess If a directive is valid in this context, it means that it can appear
    inside per -directory .ftpaccess files.
    These files are akin to Apache's .htaccess files:
    parsed-on-the-fly mini-configuration files that users can place within
    their own directories. A configuration directive is only allowed within the designated
contexts; if you try to use that directive elsewhere, you will get a
configuration error that will either prevent the server from handling requests
in that context correctly, or will keep the server from operating at all i.e. , the server will not even start.  A directive that is marked as
being valid in " server config, .ftpaccess " can be used
in the proftpd.conf file and in .ftpaccess files,
but not within any <Directory> , <VirtualHost> , or other contexts. Two new configuration directives were introduced in proftpd-1.2.6rc1 : <IfModule> and <IfDefine> .  These work exactly like Apache's directives of
the same names, providing the ability to have conditional sections in the
configuration file. Module This quite simply lists the name of the module ( e.g. mod_xfer , mod_tls , mod_sql , etc )
which defines and implements the directive. Compatibility This usually lists the version in which the directive first appeared. A list of the configuration directives for ProFTPD is available here: http://www.proftpd.org/docs/ When reading the description for the configuration directives, this key
might be useful:
It describes the description format, and lists the different contexts in the
configuration file.  The "server config" context is the one in
which most of your configuration directives will most likely be placed. Starting the Daemon One of the first decisions you will need to make is whether you will be running
your ProFTPD server as an inetd service, or as a standalone server.  This is controlled in the proftpd.conf using the ServerType configuration
directive (see the ServerType page). Server Identity The daemon must be started with root privileges in order to do things like
binding to port 21 and chrooting FTP sessions.  However, it is not a good
idea to leave a long-lived process running as root.  The User and Group configuration directives are thus recommended.  These
directives configure the identity to which the daemon will switch, after
accomplishing its startup tasks.  The daemon will switch to the configured User and Group in the "server config"
context.  (Note that this switch uses the effective UID/GID,
not the real UID/GID.  Some programs, such as top ,
will continue to report proftpd as running as root ;
this is because the program displays the real UID/GID of processes.
The proftpd daemon retains root privileges for operations
such as chroots and binding to port 20 for active data transfers.
If you wish proftpd to drop all root privileges, use the RootRevoke configuration directive.) For this reason, it is recommended that a non-privileged identity be
used.  Many sites choose to use user nobody .  Historically,
this role account was used by NFS-related processes; over time, many other
applications default to using user nobody .  This has the
side-effect of adding to the "privileges" held by user nobody , in terms of files owned and/or accessible by that user.
Instead, I personally recommend that a new role account be created for use
specifically by the daemon, a user ftpd , and perhaps even a
group ftpd .  Many systems that run Apache have a user www or user apache for use by the httpd daemon; similarly, a separate user should be created for the proftpd daemon. In the default configuration file that accompanies the proftpd source code,
there appears: User nobody
  Group nogroup When trying to start the daemon, many users encounter the "no such group
'nogroup'" error message.  There are really no reasonable defaults
for those directives.  The error message is a way of telling you to create the
role accounts mentioned above. For every connection, proftpd creates a new process to handle
that client/connection.  Once that client has successfully authenticated,
then that process switches to the identity/privileges ( e.g. UID, primary
and supplemental GIDs, etc ) of the authenticated user.  Thus all
browsing, uploads, and downloads that clients do happen as the user as which
they are logged in. Logging in By default, the proftpd daemon reads the host's /etc/passwd file for logging in users.  This means that to
add FTP users, you simply need to create new system accounts for those users in
your /etc/passwd file. Sometimes, though, sites want "virtual", FTP-only users.  In order
to support such configurations, the AuthUserFile configuration
directive can be used (see here for details). For the purpose of authenticating users using other means, there are various
authentication modules: mod_sql , mod_ldap , mod_radius , etc .
Authentication and the login process is discussed here in more detail. For setting up anonymous logins, there is the <Anonymous> configuration context.  If there
are no <Anonymous> sections in your proftpd.conf , then no anonymous logins will be allowed - simple.
As mentioned in the description, the User directive in an <Anonymous> context determines what username is treated as
an anonymous login.  The main other thing to know about anonymous logins is
that ProFTPD automatically chroots anonymous logins. For normal, non-anonymous logins, jails/chroots are configured using the DefaultRoot directive.  This is the configuration directive used to restrict users to
their home directories, to keep them from browsing around the site.  There is
a page covering chrooting here . If you use <VirtualHost> sections, and it seems that your
server configuration is not being seen by connecting clients, you might
need to check that, if using a DNS name instead of an IP address in your <VirtualHost> line, that name resolves to an IP address
different from that of the "default" server.  Many people new
to ProFTPD get the impression that since the configuration syntax looks
similar to Apache's, things like name-based virtual hosting will work as well.
Unfortunately, this is not possible.  It is not a limitation in ProFTPD,
but rather in the RFCs that define FTP.  See the virtual server page for more information. As a workaround, some sites configure virtual servers to run on non-standard
ports, using the Port configuration directive.  As long as
the clients are aware of the non-standard port, this scheme works well.  One
minor little caveat to keep in mind, when using this approach, is the numbers
used: the RFCs mandate that the daemon, for the purposes of active data
transfers (as opposed to passive) use port L -1 as the source
port for the data connection, where L is the port number
at which the client contacted the server.  This means that servers that use the
standard port 21 for FTP will use port 20 as the source port for their
active data transfers.  ( Note that this also means that you do not need to have port 20 open in your firewall for inbound connections for FTP data transfers).  Passive data transfers do not have this
restriction.  The restriction comes into play when choosing non-standard port
numbers for virtual hosts.  For example, this configuration would cause
problems for clients of the second virtual server that wanted to use active
data transfers: <VirtualHost a.b.c.d >
    Port 2121
    ...
  </VirtualHost>

  <VirtualHost a.b.c.d >
    Port 2122
    ...
  </VirtualHost> The second virtual would attempt to use port 2121 as the source port for
an active data transfer, but would be blocked, as the first virtual server
is already using that port for listening. Access Restrictions Many sites like to have specific directories for uploads, and other directories
only for downloads; some sites like to allow downloads, but no browsing
of directories or their contents.  For configurations to achieve this,
use combinations of the <Directory> and <Limit> configuration directives.  There are separate
pages that cover these configuration sections: <Directory> <Limit> Further Questions Hopefully this document answers some of your questions, or at least enough
to get you started.  In addition, you should take a look at some of the example configuration
files .  Once you are comfortable with the configuration file format, a
reading of all the configuration directives' descriptions is recommended,
especially if you plan on having more complex configurations.  When trying to
figure out why something is not working, make use of server debugging output. If you still have questions, the users mailing list is the best place to post them. © Copyright 2000-2016 The ProFTPD Project All Rights Reserved