ProFTPD: ServerType ServerType The ServerType configuration directive for ProFTPD can cause confusion for those just starting
with this server.  What is the purpose for this directive?  What are these
"inetd" and "standalone" types, and why does one need to
choose one or the other? The purpose of this directive is to choose between the two operating modes for
almost all Unix network servers: does the server listen on its port for
client requests itself, or does the server let some other process do the
listening, and call the server when needed?  Traditionally, that
"other process" has been inetd , a
"super server" that listens on all interfaces, all ports on a
Unix machine, and calls the appropriate server based on the port contacted.
A more modern replacement for inetd is found in the xinetd server; this server functions much the same way.  The
other mode of operation is to have the server listen on the port(s) itself,
and handle client requests accordingly.  The latter mode is the standalone ServerType , the former is the inetd mode (which covers both the inetd and xinetd processes). This directive is mandatory, and must be set to one mode or the other.  The
two modes are incompatible (two processes cannot be bound to the same
interface/port combination simultaneously), and thus the proftpd must be told in which mode it is to operate. Inetd Mode In inetd mode, the proftpd server expects to be started
by the inetd (or xinetd ) servers.  It is these
servers, inetd/xinetd , that listen on the FTP port (usually 21)
for connection requests, then start proftpd and pass the
connection off.  This mode is usually best suited for low traffic sites,
for sites that do not handle many FTP sessions. Example /etc/inetd.conf entry: ftp    stream  tcp     nowait  root    /usr/sbin/tcpd  /usr/sbin/proftpd The inetd.conf man pages discuss these fields in greater detail. An example xinetd configuration is: service ftp
  {
        disable = no
        flags			= IPv4
        socket_type             = stream
        wait                    = no
        user                    = root
        server                  = /usr/sbin/proftpd
        server_args             = -c /etc/proftpd.conf
  } The xinetd configuration is usually found in /etc/xinetd.conf or in the /etc/xinetd.d/ directory. Note : Solaris users may find that their /etc/inetd.conf file ships with an ftp entry that looks similar to the above,
except that it has "tcp6" rather than "tcp".  For proftpd to function properly in such cases, that "tcp6"
will need to be changed to "tcp".  Solaris uses the tcp6 keyword to have its inetd pass IPv6 sockets to the called program; proftpd must have been configured with the --enable-ipv6 option to handle such sockets. Inetd Mode and Non-standard Ports A note about using non-standard ports in your configuration via the Port configuration directive: making these work while in inetd mode and using inetd (as oppposed to xinetd ) is problematic.  The first column of an /etc/inetd.conf entry lists a protocol name.  The port
for that protocol is listed in the /etc/services file.  For
services that run on non-standard ports, however, /etc/services has no entry, and inetd is programmed
so as to always reference that file.  This means that if use of non-standard
ports and use of inetd are required, the /etc/services file will need to be edited.  Avoid this situation
if possible. Compared to inetd , xinetd 's configuration format
is more flexible: it can be configured to use non-standard ports using the port attribute: port             determines  the  service  port.  If  this
                        attribute  is  specified  for  a  service
                        listed in /etc/services, it must be equal
                        to the port number listed in that file. as described in the xinetd.conf(5) man page. If your proftpd server is running in this mode, you do not need
to worry about restarting any servers whenever changes are made to the proftpd.conf configuration file.  Since proftpd is started for each new FTP session by inetd/xinetd , and
part of that startup process includes reading the configuration file, any
changes will be seen by any new FTP sessions once the changes are made. If you attempt to start a proftpd server configured with a ServerType of standalone , and already have inetd/xinetd also configured to handle FTP connections, this kind
of error message will appear in your proftpd logs: golem.castaglia.org - Failed binding to 127.0.0.1, port 21: Address already in use
  golem.castaglia.org - Check the ServerType directive to ensure you are configured correctly. More information might be found by debugging your
configuration. Standalone Mode In this mode, the proftpd listens for incoming FTP session
requests itself, and forks off child processes to handle those requests.
This mode is best suited for high traffic, popular sites; the overhead
of having to parse the configuration file each time, as is done for inetd -handled sessions, is avoided in this mode.  Also,
there is no need to change any other configuration files other than the proftpd.conf , for ports, virtual servers, or anything else. When running in this mode, the server will need to be restarted whenever
changes are made to the configuration file.  There is a page that describes how this can be done. Many administrators are accustomed to using tcpwrappers to
secure their network servers; indeed, this is a good practice to get into.
However, the most common way this is done is through inetd .
When running a proftpd server in standalone mode,
then, it is not quite as straightforward; however, it is not hard, either.
The mod_wrap module can be
compiled into your proftpd .  This module allows a standalone proftpd server to use the normal /etc/hosts.allow , /etc/hosts.deny files, in addition to other files (something that
normal tcpwrappers configurations cannot do). If you try to start a proftpd server configured with a ServerType of inetd from the command line (or from
some shell wrapper script), this kind of error message will appear in your proftpd logs: golem.castaglia.org - Fatal: Socket operation on non-socket
  golem.castaglia.org - (Running from command line? Use `ServerType standalone' in config file!) More information might be found by debugging your
configuration. Switching Modes Changing from one ServerType mode to the other is a simple
process, as long as the few steps involved are followed. To change from inetd to standalone , make sure to remove any
FTP configurations from /etc/inetd.conf , /etc/xinetd.conf , /etc/xinetd.d/ , or wherever
your superserver's configuration file(s) reside.  Once this is done,
make sure those changes are seen by restarting inetd/xinetd .
Then, make sure ServerType standalone is in your proftpd.conf .  Start the proftpd server from the command line, to make sure all is working.  You can then
easily start server from an init.d script such as the one
mentioned here . To change from standalone to inetd , make sure your proftpd is stopped completely.  Add a configuration entry
for FTP into your inetd/xinetd configuration (mentioned
above), then restart inetd/xinetd to have those configuration
changes seen.  Check your proftpd.conf to see that ServerType inetd is there. Frequently Asked Questions Question : I have configured: <IfModule mod_ident.c>
    IdentLookups off
  </IfModule>

  ServerIdent off in my proftpd.conf , but my logins are still slow.  Why? Answer :  Another source of slow logins can be xinetd , or tcpwrappers compiled for reverse DNS
lookups ( i.e. with the -DPARANOID option). If you are using ServerType inetd , and you are using xinetd to run proftpd , then you should check your /etc/xinetd.conf (or /etc/xinetd.d/proftpd or
similar) file for the USERID parameter, e.g. : log_on_success          += DURATION USERID
  log_on_failure          += USERID As per the xinetd.conf documentation, the use of USERID in your configuration causes xinetd to do
an IDENTD lookup: USERID      logs the user id of the remote user  using
                    the   RFC  1413  identification  protocol.
                    This option is available only  for  multi-
                    threaded stream services. Removing USERID from your xinetd configuration
for proftpd often suffices to fix the slow logins. Another solution is simply to switch your ServerType to "standalone". © Copyright 2017-2020 The ProFTPD Project All Rights Reserved