ProFTPD: Supported FTP Commands ProFTPD: Supported FTP Commands Supported FTP Commands ABOR ALLO Short for ALLO cate. APPE Short for APPE nd. AUTH Short for AUTH enticate (supported by mod_tls ) CDUP Short for C hange D irectory UP , this command is used
    to move the client's "location" on the server up one level in
    the filesystem hierarchy. CLNT Short for CL ie NT , this command is used by clients to
    offer/provide any freeform identification they desire to the server. CSID Short for C lient/ S server ID entification, this command
    is used by clients and servers to offer/provide identification information
    to the other side. CWD Short for C hange W orking D irectory. DELE Short for DELE te, this command is used by the client to tell the
    server to delete a file. EPRT Short for E xtended P o RT , an enhanced version of
    the PORT command that can handle IPv6
    addresses. EPSV Short for E xtended P a S si V e, an enhanced
    version of the PASV command that can
    handle IPv6 addresses. FEAT Short for FEAT ures, this command is used by the client to request
    a descriptive list of server-supported features. HASH This command is used by clients to request the checksum, or "hash", of
    a file on the server.  This command is available when the mod_digest module
    is compiled/loaded. HELP HOST This command is the equivalent of HTTP's "Host" header for FTP, providing
    the ability to have name-based virtual hosting. LANG LIST MDTM Short for M o D ification T i M e, this command
    is used by the client to request the modification time of a file on the
    server.  This command is defined formally in RFC 3659 , and is a commonly implemented FTP command. Note that this command cannot be used to change the
    modification time of the file on the server; it only reports on the
    file's modification time.  The MFMT command is used to change a file's modification time. MFMT Short for M odify F act: Last M odified T ime,
    supported by mod_facts .
    Some clients use this command to change the last modified timestamp on
    a newly uploaded file so that the timestamp on the server matches the
    timestamp of that file on the client. MKD Short for M a K e D irectory. MLSD Short for M achine L i S ting, D irectory, supported
    by mod_facts .  Unlike
    the LIST command, whose response format
    was never specified, the MLSD command has a strictly defined
    response format (see RFC 3659 for details).  This format was designed to be easily machine parseable,
    for automated processing of directory listing formats; the format was also
    designed to be platform-agnostic, and thus portable. MLST Short for M achine L i ST ing, supported by mod_facts .  This
    command is similar to MLSD in that it
    uses the same response format.  Unlike MLSD , the response for a MLST is sent back on the control connection rather than
    using a data connection, and is for a single file only . MODE There are three mode types defined by RFC 959 ; proftpd only supports one ( i.e. S tream). NLST Short for N ame L i ST . NOOP Short for NO OP eration.  This command has no functionality, and
    is often used as a session keepalive mechanism. OPTS Short for OPT ion S .  This command is used to specify
    optional parameters for the command to follow the OPTS command, if that command supports such optional parameters. PASS Short for PASS word, the client uses this command to convey the
    password of the user attempting to log into the server. PASV Short for PAS si V e, the client uses this command to ask the
    server for a port to which the client should connect, indicating a
    passive data transfer. PBSZ Short for P rotection B uffer S i Z e.  Used
    to determine the size of a buffer needed for secure handshaking (supported
    by mod_tls ) PORT The client uses this command to tell the server to what client-side port
    the server should contact; use of this command indicates an active data
    transfer. PROT Short for PROT ection.  Used to set the protection level on the
    data channel (supported by mod_tls ) PWD Short for P rint W orking D irectory. QUIT RANG Short for RANG e, this command is used by clients to request
    that a specific range of bytes be transferred for files, including
    uploads and downloads; supported by mod_xfer and defined by this IETF
    Draft . REST Short for REST art, this command is used by the client to tell the
    server that it would like to restart a previous data transfer, either
    upload or download. RETR Short for RETR ieve, this command is used by the client to inform
    the server of the file the client would like to download.  On many FTP
    client, this is implemented using the client-specfic "get"
    command. RMD Short for R e M ove D irectory, this command is used
    to have the server delete the requested directory from its filesystem. RNFR Short for R e N ame FR om. RNTO Short for R e N ame TO . SITE This command is used for site-specific commands.  See below for descriptions
    of proftpd 's SITE commands. SIZE SSCN Short for S et S ecured C lient N egotiation, this
    non-standard command is used by FTPS clients to tell a server to use TLS
    when performing a site-to-site transfer.  For more details, see here . STAT STOR Short for STOR e, this command is used by the client to tell the
    the server that the client will be uploading data for a file to stored
    on the server using the filename given.  On many FTP clients, this
    is implemented using the client-specific "put" command. STOU Short for STO re U unique, it requests that the file being
    stored on the server be given a unique filename.  The server chooses the
    unique name for the stored file, and reports the name chosen back to
    the client. On some FTP clients, this ability is enabled using the
    client-specific "sunique" command. SYST TYPE USER An FTP client uses this command to inform the server of the name of the
    user requesting an FTP session. XCUP This is an X-variant of the CDUP command,
    and has the same functionality. XCWD This is an X-variant of the CWD command,
    and has the same functionality. XMKD This is an X-variant of the MKD command,
    and has the same functionality. XPWD This is an X-variant of the PWD command,
    and has the same functionality. XRMD This is an X-variant of the RMD command,
    and has the same functionality. Supported SITE commands CHGRP Short for CH ange GR ou P . Example: SITE CHGRP ftpgroup script.cgi CHMOD Short for CH ange MOD e. Example: SITE CHMOD 755 script.cgi HELP MKDIR Similar to the MKD command, this SITE can be used to create a directory.  It will, unlike MKD , also create any directories in the path that do
    not exist. Example: SITE MKDIR /path/to/some/dir/that/is/not/there/ Supported by the mod_site_misc module. RMDIR Similar to the RMD command, this SITE can be used to remove a directory.  It will, unlike RMD , also delete any files in the directory. Example: SITE RMDIR /path/to/some/dir/with/files/ Supported by the mod_site_misc module. SYMLINK Used to create a symbolic link ( a.k.a. a symlink) from
    the source path ( src ) to the destination path ( dest ). Example: SITE SYMLINK src dest Supported by the mod_site_misc module. UTIME Used to update the access and modification timestamps on a file. Example: SITE UTIME 200412312359 /path/to/some/file.txt Supported by the mod_site_misc module. Unsupported FTP Commands ACCT Short for ACC oun T MACB Short for MAC intosh B inary.  This command is not defined in
    any RFC, and is something of a hack added by Apple in order to support
    transfers of the resource forks of Mac files. REIN SMNT STRU Short for STRU cture. proftpd only supports a STRU parameter of type F (for "file"),
    and so does not support this command. Frequently Asked Questions Question : I can use the RNFR and RNTO commands to move a file, even across different
disks/mount points.  And I can use RNFR / RNTO to move
a directory, but I cannot move a directory across different
disks/mount points.  Is this a bug? Answer : No, it is not a bug.  Why not?  Ultimately,
it is because the FTP specifications do not guarantee (or even discuss )
that an FTP implementation must support renaming of directories across
mount points. ProFTPD implements the RNFR / RNTO functionality
by using the rename(2) system call.  And rename(2) is documented to not work across mount points. "But then why does it work when I rename a file across mount points?" you
ask.  Good question.  The answer is that for files only , ProFTPD
detects the rename(2) error for renaming across mount points,
and then copies the file in question to the new location, deleting
the old location when the copy completes successfully. "Great!" you say, "Now do the same thing for directories!" Unfortunately, for
directories, the answer is not that simple.  Here are some things to consider
when copying directories: what if the directory contains sockets, FIFOs,
devices, and other irregular file types which cannot be easily copied/moved?
Should copying/moving of directories automatically use root privileges in
order to preserve the ownership on files that do not belong to the logged-in
user?  What if the copying/deleting of files fails in the midde: what should
then happen to the copied (and remaining) files/directories? Since there are no easy answers as yet to the above questions, ProFTPD now
detects the rename(2) error for renaming across mount points
for a directory , and rejects the RNTO command, showing
something like: RNFR directory
  350 File or directory exists, ready for destination name
  RNTO /other/mount/directory
  550 Rename /other/mount/directory: Is a directory That "Is a directory" error indicates that ProFTPD cannot rename a directory
across the mount points you requested.  (That particular error message can,
and will, be made more informative.) © Copyright 2000-2022 The ProFTPD Project All Rights Reserved