Contributing to Sudo | Sudo Contributing to Sudo Thank you for your interest in contributing to Sudo!  There are a
number of way you can help make Sudo better. Getting started To get an overview of Sudo, see the README.md file.
There are multiple ways to contribute, some of which don’t require
writing a single line of code. Filing bug reports/issues If you believe you have found a bug, you can either file a bug
report in the sudo bug database, https://bugzilla.sudo.ws/ , or open
a GitHub issue ,
whichever you find easier.  If you would prefer to use email,
messages may be sent to the sudo-workers@sudo.ws mailing
list (public)
or to sudo@sudo.ws (private). For sudo’s security policy and how to report security issues, see SECURITY.md . Please check TROUBLESHOOTING.md before submitting a bug report.  When reporting bugs, be sure to include
the version of sudo you are using, the operating system and/or
distro that is affected, and, if possible, step-by-step instructions
to reproduce the problem. Making changes to Sudo If you are interested in making changes to Sudo there are two main
work flows: clone the sudo repo , make
your changes, and submit a Pull Request (PR). send a diff with your changes to the sudo-workers@sudo.ws mailing
list to start
a discussion. In addition to the GitHub repo ,
there is also a mirror hosted on git.sudo.ws . sudo-workers mailing list If you would like to discuss your changes before submitting a
PR, you may do so on the sudo-workers@sudo.ws mailing
list .
Otherwise, discussion can simply occur as part of the PR work flow. Fuzzing Sudo uses the oss-fuzz project to perform fuzzing.  Each commit to the main branch will trigger
a short fuzzing run via the CIFuzz
action .
The history of that action shows successful and failed fuzzing runs. Longer fuzzing runs occur using the ClusterFuzz infrastructure.  These
fuzzing runs are longer than those used by CIFuzz.  A public list of
failures is available. For more information, see https://www.sudo.ws/security/fuzzing/ . Translations Sudo uses GNU gettext for
its National Language Support (NLS).  Strings in sudo and related
programs are collected in .pot files that can be translated into
multiple languages. Translations for sudo are coordinated by the Translation
Project .  If you would like to
contribute to Sudo’s translations, please join a translation team
at the Translation Project instead of contributing a .po file
directly.  This will avoid duplicated work if there is already a
translation in progress.  If you would like to become a member of
a translation team, please follow the instructions for
translators . There are currently two translation domains: one for the sudo
front-end and a separate one for the sudoers module and related
utilities .