How To Compile SQLite Small. Fast. Reliable. Choose any three. Home Menu About Documentation Download License Support Purchase Search About Documentation Download Support Purchase How To Compile SQLite Table Of Contents 1. Overview 2. Amalgamation Versus Individual Source Files 3. Compiling The Command-Line Interface 4. Compiling The TCL Interface 5. Building The Amalgamation 6. Building A Windows DLL 1. Overview Compile SQLite like this: Unix and Mac → ./configure && make Windows → nmake /f Makefile.msc The commands above will build the amalgamation and the Command Line Interface (aka: CLI ).  There are no (required) dependencies,
so the commands above should work as long as you have a compiler
installed.  No third-party software is needed.  For more detail see: https://sqlite.org/src/doc/trunk/doc/compile-for-unix.md https://sqlite.org/src/doc/trunk/doc/compile-for-windows.md But this article is not about providing a step-by-step recipe for compiling
SQLite.  Rather, this article describes the principles behind the
compilation of SQLite.  Typical compilation commands are provided as examples
with the expectation that application developers can use these examples
as guidance for developing their own custom compilation procedures.
In other words, this article provides ideas and insights, not turnkey
solutions.  So if the overview commands above don't tell you want you
wanted to know, keep reading. 2. Amalgamation Versus Individual Source Files SQLite is built from over one hundred files of C code and script
spread across multiple directories.  The implementation of SQLite is pure
ANSI-C, but many of the C-language source code files are either
generated or transformed by auxiliary C programs and AWK, SED, and TCL
scripts prior to being incorporated into the finished SQLite library.
Building the necessary C programs and transforming and/or creating the
C-language source code for SQLite is a complex process. To simplify matters, SQLite is also available as a pre-packaged amalgamation source code file: sqlite3.c .  The amalgamation is
a single file of ANSI-C code that implements the entire SQLite library.
The amalgamation is much easier to deal with.  Everything is contained
within a single code file, so it is easy to drop into the source tree
of a larger C or C++ program.  All the code generation and transformation
steps have already been carried out so there are no auxiliary C programs
to configure and compile and no scripts to run.  And, because the entire
library is contained in a single translation unit, compilers are able to
do more advanced optimizations resulting in a 5% to 10% performance
improvement.  For these reasons, the amalgamation source file
(" sqlite3.c ") is recommended for all applications. The use of the amalgamation , either downloaded pre-built from the website or
built yourself from canonical sources , is recommended for all applications. Linking the SQLite library to your application using
individual source code files is possible.  However,
it is much easier to either download the amalgamation or
build it yourself using the "sqlite3.c" makefile target and
then use the amalgamation for subsequent build steps.
For some specialized applications, it
might be necessary to do a custom build of the amalgamation using
non-standard compile-time options rather than using the pre-built
amalgamation from the website.
In other words, even if a project requires building SQLite
beginning with individual source files, it is still recommended that an
amalgamation source file be used as an intermediate step. 3. Compiling The Command-Line Interface A build of the command-line interface requires three source
files: sqlite3.c : The SQLite amalgamation source file sqlite3.h : The header file that accompanies sqlite3.c and
defines the C-language interfaces to SQLite. shell.c : The command-line interface program itself.
This is the C source code file that contains the definition of
the main() routine and the loop that prompts for user input
and passes that input into the SQLite database engine for processing. All three of the above source files are contained in the amalgamation tarball available on the download page .
Or they can be built from canonical sources using the "sqlite3.c"
makefile target. To build the CLI, simply put these three files in the same directory
and compile them together.  Using MSVC: cl shell.c sqlite3.c -Fesqlite3.exe On Unix systems
the command typically looks something like this: gcc shell.c sqlite3.c -lpthread -ldl -lm -o sqlite3 The pthreads library is needed to make SQLite threadsafe.  But
since the CLI is single threaded,  we could instruct SQLite to build
in a non-threadsafe mode and thereby omit the pthreads library: gcc -DSQLITE_THREADSAFE=0 shell.c sqlite3.c -ldl -lm -o sqlite3 The -ldl library is needed to support dynamic loading, the sqlite3_load_extension() interface and the load_extension() SQL function .  If these features are not required,
then they can be omitted using SQLITE_OMIT_LOAD_EXTENSION compile-time
option: gcc -DSQLITE_THREADSAFE=0 -DSQLITE_OMIT_LOAD_EXTENSION shell.c sqlite3.c -o sqlite3 One might want to provide other compile-time options such as -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS4 or -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS5 for full-text search, -DSQLITE_ENABLE_RTREE for the R*Tree search engine extension, -DSQLITE_ENABLE_DBSTAT_VTAB for the dbstat virtual table , or -DSQLITE_ENABLE_MATH_FUNCTIONS for extended math functions. In order to see extra commentary in EXPLAIN listings, add the -DSQLITE_ENABLE_EXPLAIN_COMMENTS option. Add -DHAVE_READLINE and
the -lreadline and -lncurses libraries to get command-line editing
support.  One might also want to specify some compiler optimization
switches.  (The precompiled CLI available for download from the SQLite
website uses "-Os".)  There are countless possible variations here.  A
command to compile a full-featured shell might look something like
this: gcc -Os -I. -DSQLITE_THREADSAFE=0 -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS4 \
   -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS5 -DSQLITE_ENABLE_JSON1 \
   -DSQLITE_ENABLE_RTREE -DSQLITE_ENABLE_EXPLAIN_COMMENTS \
   -DHAVE_READLINE \
   shell.c sqlite3.c -ldl -lm -lreadline -lncurses -o sqlite3 The key point is this:  Building the CLI consists of compiling
together two C-language files.   The shell.c file contains the
definition of the entry point and the user input loop and the
SQLite amalgamation sqlite3.c contains the complete implementation
of the SQLite library. 4. Compiling The TCL Interface The TCL interface for SQLite is a small module that is added into
the regular amalgamation.  The result is a new amalgamated source
file called " tclsqlite3.c ".  This single source file is all that
is needed to generate a shared library that can be loaded into a
standard tclsh or wish using the TCL load command , or to generate a
standalone tclsh that comes with SQLite built in. To generate a TCL-loadable library for SQLite on Linux, the following
command will suffice: gcc -o libtclsqlite3.so -shared tclsqlite3.c -lpthread -ldl -ltcl Building shared libraries for Mac OS X and Windows is not nearly so simple,
unfortunately. To generate a standalone tclsh that is statically linked with SQLite,
use this compiler invocation: gcc -DTCLSH=1 tclsqlite3.c -ltcl -lpthread -ldl -lz -lm The trick here is the -DTCLSH=1 option.  The TCL interface module for
SQLite includes a main() procedure that initializes a TCL interpreter
and enters a command-line loop when it is compiled with -DTCLSH=1.  The
command above works on both Linux and Mac OS X, though one may need to adjust
the library options depending on the platform and which version of TCL one
is linking against. 5. Building The Amalgamation The versions of the SQLite amalgamation that are supplied on the download page are normally adequate for most users.  However, some
projects may want or need to build their own amalgamations.  A common
reason for building a custom amalgamation is in order to use certain compile-time options to customize the SQLite library.  Recall that
the SQLite amalgamation contains a lot of C-code that is generated by
auxiliary programs and scripts.  Many of the compile-time
options affect this generated code and must be supplied to the code
generators before the amalgamation is assembled.  The set of
compile-time options that must be passed into the code generators can
vary from one release of SQLite to the next, but at the time of this
writing (circa SQLite 3.6.20, 2009-11-04) the set of options that must
be known by the code generators includes: SQLITE_ENABLE_UPDATE_DELETE_LIMIT SQLITE_OMIT_ALTERTABLE SQLITE_OMIT_ANALYZE SQLITE_OMIT_ATTACH SQLITE_OMIT_AUTOINCREMENT SQLITE_OMIT_CAST SQLITE_OMIT_COMPOUND_SELECT SQLITE_OMIT_EXPLAIN SQLITE_OMIT_FOREIGN_KEY SQLITE_OMIT_PRAGMA SQLITE_OMIT_REINDEX SQLITE_OMIT_SUBQUERY SQLITE_OMIT_TEMPDB SQLITE_OMIT_TRIGGER SQLITE_OMIT_VACUUM SQLITE_OMIT_VIEW SQLITE_OMIT_VIRTUALTABLE To build a custom amalgamation, first download the original individual
source files onto a Unix or Unix-like development platform.
Be sure to get the original source
files, not the "preprocessed source files".  One can obtain the complete
set of original source files either from the download page or directly
from the configuration management system . Suppose the SQLite source tree is stored in a directory named "sqlite".
Plan to construct the amalgamation in a parallel directory named (for
example) "bld".  First construct an appropriate Makefile by either
running the configure script at the top of the SQLite source tree, or by
making a copy of one of the template Makefiles at the top of the source tree.
Then hand edit this Makefile to include the desired compile-time options.
Finally run: make sqlite3.c Or on Windows with MSVC: nmake /f Makefile.msc sqlite3.c The "sqlite3.c" make target will automatically construct the regular
" sqlite3.c " amalgamation source file, its header file
" sqlite3.h ", and the " tclsqlite3.c " amalgamation source
file that includes the TCL interface.
Afterwards, the needed files can be copied into project directories and
compiled according to the procedures outlined above. 6. Building A Windows DLL To build a DLL of SQLite for use in Windows, first acquire the
appropriate amalgamated source code files, sqlite3.c and sqlite3.h.
These can either
be downloaded from the SQLite website or custom generated from sources as shown above. With source code files in the working directory, a DLL
can be generated using MSVC with the following command: cl sqlite3.c -link -dll -out:sqlite3.dll The above command should be run from the MSVC Native Tools Command
Prompt.  If you have MSVC installed on your machine, you probably
have multiple versions of this Command Prompt, for native builds
for x86 and x64, and possibly also for cross-compiling to ARM.
Use the appropriate Command Prompt depending on the desired DLL. If using the MinGW compiler, the command-line is this: gcc -shared sqlite3.c -o sqlite3.dll Note that MinGW generates 32-bit DLLs only.  There is a separate
MinGW64 project that can be used to generate 64-bit DLLs.  Presumably
the command-line syntax is similar.
Also note that recent versions of MSVC generate DLLs that will not work
on WinXP and earlier versions of Windows.  So for maximum compatibility
of your generated DLL, MinGW is recommended.  A good rule-of-thumb
is to generate 32-bit DLLs using MinGW and 64-bit DLLs using MSVC. In most cases, you will want to supplement the basic commands above with compile-time options appropriate for your application.  Commonly used
compile-time options include: -Os - Optimize for size.
Make the DLL as small as possible. -O2 - Optimize for speed.  This will make the DLL larger by
unrolling loops and inlining functions. -DSQLITE_ENABLE_FTS4 -
Include the full-text search engine code in SQLite. -DSQLITE_ENABLE_RTREE - Include the R-Tree extension . -DSQLITE_ENABLE_COLUMN_METADATA -
This enables some extra APIs that are required by some common systems,
including Ruby-on-Rails. This page last modified on 2025-05-31 13:08:22 UTC