Wireshark • Go Deep | Command Line Manual Pages Wireshark Manual Pages The following man pages are part of the Wireshark distribution. They are available via the man command on UNIX ® / POSIX ® systems and HTML files in the Wireshark Program folder on Windows systems. androiddump - Provide interfaces to capture from Android devices. capinfos - Prints information about capture files. captype - Prints the types of capture files. ciscodump - Provide interfaces to capture from a remote Cisco device through SSH. dumpcap - Dump network traffic. editcap - Edit and/or translate the format of capture files. etwdump - Provide an interface to read Event Tracing for Windows (ETW). extcap - The extcap interface. falcodump - Dump log data to a file using a Falco source plugin. idl2wrs - CORBA IDL to Wireshark Plugin Generator. mergecap - Merges two or more capture files into one. mmdbresolve - Read IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and print their IP geolocation information. randpkt - Random packet generator. randpktdump - Provide an interface to generate random captures using randpkt. rawshark - Dump and analyze raw pcap data. reordercap - Reorder input file by timestamp into output file. sshdig - Provide interfaces to capture system calls from a remote host through SSH using a remote capture binary. sshdump - Provide interfaces to capture from a remote host through SSH using a remote capture binary. stratoshark - System call and event log analyzer. text2pcap - Generate a capture file from an ASCII hexdump of packets. tshark - Dump and analyze network traffic. udpdump - Provide a UDP receiver that gets packets from network devices (like Aruba routers) and exports them in PCAP format. wifidump - Provides an interface to capture Wi-Fi frames from a remote host through SSH. wireshark-filter - Wireshark display filter syntax and reference. wireshark - Interactively dump and analyze network traffic. External Manual Pages Capture filtering is handled by libpcap, and its documentation is
            part of the libpcap distribution. pcap-filter - Capture filter syntax Find out more about the new WCA certification