Source Repo | Sudo Source Repo Read-only access to the sudo source repository (from as far back as 1993)
is available for checkout using git .
If you are interested in contributing to sudo , the
easiest way is probably via GitHub . Cloning the sudo source repo via git The main sudo source repo is located at git.sudo.ws .
However, it is much faster to use one of the two official git mirrors, GitHub and Bitbucket . The following examples will use GitHub . To download a copy of the repo you must first install git .
You can then make a clone of the repo by running: git clone https://github.com/sudo-project/sudo.git This will create a copy of the sudo repo on your local machine in the
sudo directory. This step only needs to be done once. By default, this will check out the HEAD of the main development branch.
To check out a copy of the sudo 1.9 source files, change to the
sudo directory that you just created and run: cd sudo
git checkout sudo-1.9 This will populate the sudo directory with the sudo source files for
the HEAD of the sudo 1.9 branch. If you want to checkout a specific version of sudo, you can use the
symbolic tag for that release.
For example, to check out sudo version 1.9.0 you would do: git checkout v1.9.0 Once you have the source tree checked out, you can update it thusly: cd sudo
git pull This will pull in changes from the master repo and merge them into
your local repo.
To fetch upstream changes without merging them or updating the local copy, use: cd sudo
git fetch You can also do standard operations like log, diff, and blame.
While you can check in changes to your local copy of the repo,
you will be unable to push the changes directly upstream. Changes
may be submitted in the form of GitHub pull requests. If you are new to git , the Git Handbook is a good place to start. Browse Online You can also browse the sudo source tree with on the web by clicking
on the tree tab at git.sudo.ws .  This
provides a nice interface and can be handy when you don’t necessarily
want to check out a full copy of the source tree. Note that there are
several branches and the default branch (main) may not be the one
you want. Stable (released) versions of sudo are built from a branch
that begins with sudo , followed by a major and minor number, e.g.
sudo-1.9, sudo-1.8, sudo-1.7 and sudo-1.6. To view a specific
release, use that release’s tag, e.g. git checkout v1.9.0 .  You may
also browse the sudo source tree on GitHub or Bitbucket . Caveats Prior to sudo version 1.5.8, the source tree was stored in RCS
without the use of symbolic tags. While there are symbolic tags
for versions previous to 1.5.8, not all files included in those
distributions have corresponding versions in the source tree.